docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

Get ProPresenter Lyrics Export up and running in just a few minutes.

## Prerequisites

1. **ProPresenter 7** must be running
2. **Network API must be enabled** in ProPresenter
3. You'll need the host IP and port (usually `127.0.0.1:1025`)

### Enable Network API in ProPresenter

1. Open ProPresenter 7
2. Go to **Preferences** → **Network**
3. Check **"Enable Network API"**
4. Note the **port number** (default: 1025)
5. Click **Save** and restart ProPresenter

## Installation

Choose one of these paths:

### Option 1: Desktop App (Recommended)

The easiest way to get started with a full graphical interface.

**Download:**
- Go to [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/adamswbrown/propresenterlyricexport/releases)
- Download the latest version for your platform:
  - **macOS**: `ProPresenter-Lyrics-vX.Y.Z-mac.zip`
  - **Windows**: `ProPresenter-Lyrics-vX.Y.Z-win.exe`

**Install & Launch:**

**macOS:**
```bash
# 1. Unzip the downloaded file
unzip ProPresenter-Lyrics-vX.Y.Z-mac.zip

# 2. Fix Gatekeeper (one-time)
xattr -cr "/path/to/ProPresenter Lyrics.app"

# 3. Move to Applications
mv ProPresenter\ Lyrics.app /Applications/

# 4. Launch the app
open /Applications/ProPresenter\ Lyrics.app
```

**Windows:**
1. Run the installer (`.exe`)
2. Follow the installation wizard
3. Launch "ProPresenter Lyrics" from your Start menu

**First Run:**
1. Open the app
2. Enter your ProPresenter **host** and **port**
3. Click **"Connect & Load Playlists"**
4. Browse your playlists and export!

### Option 2: CLI Executables

Lightweight standalone binaries for power users and automation.

**Download:**
- Go to [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/adamswbrown/propresenterlyricexport/releases)
- Download for your platform:
  - **macOS (Intel)**: `propresenter-lyrics-macos-x64`
  - **macOS (Apple Silicon)**: `propresenter-lyrics-macos-arm64`
  - **Windows**: `propresenter-lyrics-win-x64.exe`

**Setup:**

**macOS:**
```bash
# Make executable
chmod +x propresenter-lyrics-macos-x64

# Test connection
./propresenter-lyrics-macos-x64 status
```

**Windows:**
```bash
# Test connection
propresenter-lyrics-win-x64.exe status
```

**Environment Variables (Optional):**
Set these to avoid typing host/port every time:

```bash
# macOS/Linux
export PROPRESENTER_HOST=192.168.1.100
export PROPRESENTER_PORT=1025

# Windows (PowerShell)
$env:PROPRESENTER_HOST='192.168.1.100'
$env:PROPRESENTER_PORT='1025'
```

## Next Steps

- **Desktop App Users**: See the [User Guide](./user-guide) for playlist management and PPTX exports
- **CLI Users**: See the [CLI Guide](./guides/cli-guide) for command reference
- **Service Generator**: Check out the [Service Generator Guide](./guides/service-generator) to automate service playlists from PDFs
- **Having issues?**: Check the [FAQ](./faq) for troubleshooting

## Troubleshooting Setup

**Connection refused?**
- Make sure ProPresenter is running
- Check that Network API is enabled (Preferences → Network)
- Verify the host and port are correct
- If running remotely, ensure the network allows connections to port 1025

**App won't launch?**
- **macOS**: Try the Gatekeeper fix: `xattr -cr "/path/to/ProPresenter Lyrics.app"`
- **Windows**: Ensure you have administrator rights to install

**Still stuck?**
- Check the [FAQ](./faq#troubleshooting) for more detailed solutions
- Open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/adamswbrown/propresenterlyricexport/issues)

Commit message:

docs: Refocus on core lyrics export feature
- Emphasize lyrics export as primary feature in all docs
- Position Service Generator as optional advanced feature
- Add clear explanation of what the tool does (extract lyrics)
- Include instructions on how to access Service Generator tab
- Reorganize Quick Links to prioritize lyrics export workflows

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

Get ProPresenter Lyrics Export up and running in just a few minutes.

## Prerequisites

1. **ProPresenter 7** must be running
2. **Network API must be enabled** in ProPresenter
3. You'll need the host IP and port (usually `127.0.0.1:1025`)

### Enable Network API in ProPresenter

1. Open ProPresenter 7
2. Go to **Preferences** → **Network**
3. Check **"Enable Network API"**
4. Note the **port number** (default: 1025)
5. Click **Save** and restart ProPresenter

## Installation

Choose one of these paths:

### Option 1: Desktop App (Recommended)

The easiest way to get started with a full graphical interface.

**Download:**
- Go to [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/adamswbrown/propresenterlyricexport/releases)
- Download the latest version for your platform:
  - **macOS**: `ProPresenter-Lyrics-vX.Y.Z-mac.zip`
  - **Windows**: `ProPresenter-Lyrics-vX.Y.Z-win.exe`

**Install & Launch:**

**macOS:**
```bash
# 1. Unzip the downloaded file
unzip ProPresenter-Lyrics-vX.Y.Z-mac.zip

# 2. Fix Gatekeeper (one-time)
xattr -cr "/path/to/ProPresenter Lyrics.app"

# 3. Move to Applications
mv ProPresenter\ Lyrics.app /Applications/

# 4. Launch the app
open /Applications/ProPresenter\ Lyrics.app
```

**Windows:**
1. Run the installer (`.exe`)
2. Follow the installation wizard
3. Launch "ProPresenter Lyrics" from your Start menu

**First Run:**
1. Open the app
2. Enter your ProPresenter **host** and **port**
3. Click **"Connect & Load Playlists"**
4. Browse your playlists and export!

### Option 2: CLI Executables

Lightweight standalone binaries for power users and automation.

**Download:**
- Go to [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/adamswbrown/propresenterlyricexport/releases)
- Download for your platform:
  - **macOS (Intel)**: `propresenter-lyrics-macos-x64`
  - **macOS (Apple Silicon)**: `propresenter-lyrics-macos-arm64`
  - **Windows**: `propresenter-lyrics-win-x64.exe`

**Setup:**

**macOS:**
```bash
# Make executable
chmod +x propresenter-lyrics-macos-x64

# Test connection
./propresenter-lyrics-macos-x64 status
```

**Windows:**
```bash
# Test connection
propresenter-lyrics-win-x64.exe status
```

**Environment Variables (Optional):**
Set these to avoid typing host/port every time:

```bash
# macOS/Linux
export PROPRESENTER_HOST=192.168.1.100
export PROPRESENTER_PORT=1025

# Windows (PowerShell)
$env:PROPRESENTER_HOST='192.168.1.100'
$env:PROPRESENTER_PORT='1025'
```

## Next Steps

### Start Exporting Lyrics

- **Desktop App Users**: See the [User Guide](./user-guide) for how to export lyrics to PowerPoint
- **CLI Users**: See the [CLI Guide](./guides/cli-guide) for command reference
- **Customize your exports**: Check the [PPTX Export Guide](./guides/pptx-export) for styling options

### Advanced Features (Optional)

- **Service Generator**: Check out the [Service Generator Guide](./guides/service-generator) to automate service playlists from PDFs

### Need Help?

- **Having issues?**: Check the [FAQ](./faq) for troubleshooting

## Troubleshooting Setup

**Connection refused?**
- Make sure ProPresenter is running
- Check that Network API is enabled (Preferences → Network)
- Verify the host and port are correct
- If running remotely, ensure the network allows connections to port 1025

**App won't launch?**
- **macOS**: Try the Gatekeeper fix: `xattr -cr "/path/to/ProPresenter Lyrics.app"`
- **Windows**: Ensure you have administrator rights to install

**Still stuck?**
- Check the [FAQ](./faq#troubleshooting) for more detailed solutions
- Open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/adamswbrown/propresenterlyricexport/issues)
